>> Jason Lengstorf: The last thing we
wanna do here is actually add support for
running queries against that brick and
mortar API and returning results.
So to do that, we're gonna start out by
getting the dependencies that we need.
We're gonna be using Apollo for this.
Apollo is a GraphQL library
that has specific React setup.
It's designed to be relatively
straightforward to set up and they just
released hook support which is really,
really nice, so we're gonna use that.
So we're gonna yarn add
gatsby-plugin-apollo and
then we're gonna have some dependencies.
So it needs the graphql tag and
then it needs apollo/react-common for
some common pieces will use, and
then it needs apollo/react-hooks for
the react hooks that we want to use.
>> Jason Lengstorf: So
we'll get that installed.
And while we're waiting for
that to install,
I'm gonna create a new
component called results.js.
And inside of it we're gonna
import react from react and
we're also going to import
useQuery from apollo/react-hooks.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And
we'll import the gql tag which is very
different from the graphql
that Gatsby uses.
And it's important to draw
a distinction here because the GQL tag
stays in the code, so
this will ship to the browser.
And what it's doing is it's telling
when you write a GraphQL query,
and you use that template tag,
the GQL tag breaks it down
into something that a GraphQL
server can understand.
The Gatsby GraphQL gets removed at build
time, it's marking something as like,
hey, you should process
this during the build.
GQL from Apollo is telling Apollo how to
interpret a query that's been written and
executed at build time.
So that's why they're different things,
they perform different functions.
But it can be a little confusing
especially if you need a GraphQL
to understand exactly what each of those
pieces does and why they're necessary.
But that's the very fast
version of why that's there.
So the first thing I wanna do
is to set up my search query.
And because we're doing
this on the client side,
we can use any variables that we want, we
can do really anything that we want here.
So this is the Rick and Morty API, and
we'll just start with where we want to be.
So we want to do a query for characters.
The Rick and Morty API uses
a different GraphQL Explorer.
So it's a little bit different, it doesn't
have the the like click button this
to build a query thing, which is kind of
a bummer, but it's still pretty nice.
So we're gonna dig into the docs
over here and take a look.
So we've got the characters query,
which is what I want and
inside of it, I can set a filter.
And the filter that I want
is gonna be on the name.
So let's query on the name,
that's gonna be a string and
then I want to filter on the name and
we'll use that name variable.
So we may open up the query
variables down here and
we'll say that the name is
gonna be let's do Rick first.
Then,
>> Jason Lengstorf: Once we're in here,
we can hit Option + Space to see
what the available fields are.
So I'm gonna get results and
inside my results,
Option + Space again, and
let's just get the name for now.
So we should get everybody named Rick,
>> Jason Lengstorf: And
we can see that there
are quite a few of them.
And if we were to include the info,
we can see I think the count.
So there are 73 characters in the show
named Rick, and we are getting
a sub-selection, it's not all of them,
but for our purposes this is okay, right?
So let's go ahead and
get all the stuff that we need.
So I think for our purposes,
we're going to get an ID.
We want the name, let's get the species,
will get the origin name,
and we'll get the location, and
we'll do the name and dimension for that.
And then finally, let's grab the image.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Okay, and so this
will give us everything that we're gonna
need to show some results back where they
are, where they came from, name and and
image of them so
that we can show that off.
So knowing that, we can take this query
and we can drop it straight in here.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And let's make
this a little bit smaller, okay?
So I've got my full query up here.
And then,
>> Jason Lengstorf: I'm going to set up my
component.
So my component is gonna be called Results
and it's going to accept a name prop.
And that name prop is gonna be the result
of the query that we're
gonna get out of the URL.
So let's first, fire off the query.
So the way that useQuery works
is we send in the query itself,
which we've defined up here, and
then we can parse in any variables.
So the variables that I'm gonna pass in
are just the name, so this goes into here.
And what we're gonna get out
of it is a loading prop.
So when the query is executing,
loading will be true.
If anything goes wrong,
we're gonna get an error.
And if everything goes well,
we'll get data.
Once we have that, we're gonna check
to see if we've got results and
we can do that by just
saying if there's data.
And then we're gonna do a little
bit of kind of like tricky stuff.
So we'll say data characters length and
if that fails,
we're gonna just skip over to an empty
array, and then we'll set the length and
say if the length is greater than 0,
that means we have results.
So basically, if the data comes back
empty, we will show a no results.
Or if if for some reason we don't
get a characters prop at all
will default to an empty array and
then show no results.
Once we know about that,
we can return our object.
And so for this one, for the sake of
making it not impossible to read,
we'll do a little bit of inline styling.
So we're gonna set up
a max width of 500 and
then we'll set up a margin
of 50 pixels at the top and
bottom and center it left and right.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And then we'll say
that these are our search results, and
let's see, if we're loading.
We're going to show just a paragraph
that says loading results.
If there is an error,
we will show a pre-tag and
we are just gonna have
the overflowX scroll.
So if we get a long error,
it doesn't blow our layout.
And then we will just stringify the error.
So will do JSON.stringify
passing the error.
That's stringfies a function,
so we'll pass in the error as the first
argument, null is the second argument, and
2 as the number of spaces to break the
object up and prettify it up a little bit.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And
assuming we don't have an error,
we're gonna check if we have results.
And if we have results we wil,
>> Jason Lengstorf: Map
over our characters, so
data.characters.results.map,
that'll give us a character.
And we can set up a div,
and that'll have a key
of the character ID that we queried for
that.
So we can just use anything that comes
back here the ID, names spaces, etc.
Set up a little bit of styling on this,
so display flex so
that we can kind of show things in
the line as opposed to a big gnarly stack.
And then we'll set a little
bit of margin bottom so
that things aren't smashed together.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Okay, then,
>> Jason Lengstorf: We've got that div.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Right, and
then down here we need to figure out if
its not loading and
it doesn't have results.
So if it doesn't have results and
it's not loading,
we're going to show just
a basic no characters found
matching,
>> Jason Lengstorf: Name.
>> Jason Lengstorf: So assuming we
get in here we've got our div and
we want to show off what we've got.
So let's set up a div to hold the image.
And this is getting a little divy,
I think this could be cleaned up but
again we're not going for
design awards here, we're going for,
showing how the client
side app would work.
So if you go to do this,
please don't make your markup this ugly.
Let's go and do an image,
>> Jason Lengstorf: And inside of our
image we need source and we're gonna
use the character.image which is a URL.
Then, we're gonna use the alt,
which is the character's name,
and a little bit of style,
we will set it to be 100% wide,
so just fill this div basically.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And next to that,
because we're using flexbox, we will,
>> Jason Lengstorf: Set up an h3 to show,
>> Jason Lengstorf: The name.
So we'll say character.name, and
let's make the font size 20 and
set the margin top to 0 so
that it's not blowing out the layout.
And then we'll set up a Species and
use the character.species for that.
And then let's duplicate this and
say Origin and
we'll use the character.origin.name.
And I think that's probably good, so
let's see species and origin name, so
we're actually not using the location so
we can just drop that out.
So let's export this result,
>> Jason Lengstorf: Default results, okay?